Rework Ceph RBD migration documentation (#461)
openstack-k8s-operators/data-plane-adoption: docs_user/modules/proc_migrating-mgr-from-controller-nodes.adoc

[id="migrating-mgr-from-controller-nodes_{context}"]

= Migrating Ceph Mgr daemons to {Ceph} nodes

> The following section describes how to move Ceph Mgr daemons from the

Reviewer: I'm wondering if all references of "Ceph Mgr" should be "Ceph Manager". It looks that way, from a search on the customer portal, but it seems inconsistent. I can ask Erin if he is back at work on Wednesday, or we'll just merge and fix later.

Author: Yeah, it can be named `ceph-mgr` or `Ceph Manager daemon`, but I think that as per [1] I will change it to "Ceph Manager daemon" when it's not a bash command or a code reference.
+1 to follow up with Erin about it!

[1] https://docs.ceph.com/en/latest/mgr/

> OpenStack controller nodes to a set of target nodes. Target nodes might be
> pre-existing {Ceph} nodes, or OpenStack Compute nodes if Ceph is deployed by
> {OpenStackPreviousInstaller} with an HCI topology.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{rhos_prev_long} Controller nodes to a set of target nodes. Target nodes might be
pre-existing {Ceph} nodes, or {OpenStackShort} Compute nodes if {Ceph} is deployed by
{OpenStackPreviousInstaller} with an HCI topology.
```

Author: Done

.Prerequisites

Configure the target nodes (CephStorage or ComputeHCI) to have both `storage`
and `storage_mgmt` networks to ensure that you can use both {Ceph} public and
cluster networks from the same node. This step requires you to interact with
{OpenStackPreviousInstaller}. From {rhos_prev_long} {rhos_prev_ver} and later
you do not have to run a stack update.

.Procedure

This procedure assumes that cephadm and the orchestrator are the tools that
drive the Ceph Mgr migration. As done with the other Ceph daemons (MDS,
Monitoring and RGW), the procedure uses the Ceph spec to modify the placement
and reschedule the daemons. Ceph Mgr is run in an active/passive fashion, and

> it's also responsible to provide many modules, including the orchestrator.

Reviewer: This paragraph should move after the very first paragraph of this procedure:
....or OpenStack Compute nodes if Ceph is deployed by director with an HCI topology.

This procedure assumes that...

.Preqrequisites

Author: Makes sense, I'll do in the next iteration.

> . Before start the migration, ssh into the target node and enable the firewall

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Before you start the migration, ssh into the target node and enable the firewall
```

Author: Done

> rules required to reach a Mgr service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
rules that are required to reach a Mgr service.
```

Author: Done

> . Before you start the migration, ssh into the target node and enable the firewall
> rules that are required to reach a Manager service.
> 
> +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Ssh into the target node and enable the firewall rules that are required to reach a Manager service.
+
```

Author: Done

> [source,bash]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Done

----
dports="6800:7300"
ssh heat-admin@<target_node> sudo iptables -I INPUT \
    -p tcp --match multiport --dports $dports -j ACCEPT;

> ----
> 
> +
> Repeat this step for each `<target_node>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----
+
Repeat this step for each `<target_node>`.
```

> 
> [NOTE]
> Repeat the previous action for each target_node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
Repeat this step for each target_node.
```

Author: Done

. Check that the rules are properly applied and persist them:
+
----

> sudo iptables-save
> sudo systemctl restart iptables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ sudo iptables-save
$ sudo systemctl restart iptables
```

Author: Done

> ----
> +
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----

```

> . Check the rules are properly applied and persist them:
> +
> [source,bash]
> ----
> sudo iptables-save
> sudo systemctl restart iptables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check that the rules are properly applied and persist them:
+
----
sudo iptables-save
sudo systemctl restart iptables
```

. Prepare the target node to host the new Ceph Mgr daemon, and add the `mgr`
label to the target node:
+

> [source,bash]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

----

> +
> 
> * Replace `<target_node>` with the hostname of the hosts listed in the {Ceph}
>   through the `ceph orch host ls` command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
* Replace `<target_node>` with the hostname of the hosts listed in the {Ceph}
  through the `ceph orch host ls` command
```

Author: Done

> ----
> 
> - Replace <target_node> with the hostname of the hosts listed in the {Ceph}
>   through the `ceph orch host ls` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----
+
* Replace `<target_node>` with the hostname of the hosts that are listed in {Ceph} through the `ceph orch host ls` command.
```

> Repeat this action for each node that will be host a Ceph Mgr daemon.

Reviewer: Does "this action" refer to "replacing `<target_node>` with the hostname of the hosts that are listed in {Ceph} through the `ceph orch host ls` command"?

Author: it refers to all the steps we executed so far.
This means we should reiterate those actions for all the <target_nodes>. 
I'll change to `Repeat the actions described above for each `<target_node> that will host a Ceph Manager daemon.` and we can do a second pass later in case you prefer to structure things differently

> Get the Ceph Mgr spec and update the `placement` section to use `label` as the
> main scheduling strategy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I removed this sentence because it is said in the next 2 steps.

Author: +1 to avoid redundancy

. Get the Ceph Mgr spec:
+
[source,yaml]
----
sudo cephadm shell -- ceph orch ls --export mgr > mgr.yaml
----

> .Edit the retrieved spec and add the `label: mgr` section:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Edit the retrieved spec and add the `label: mgr` section to the `placement` section:
```

Author: Done

----
service_type: mgr
service_id: mgr
placement:
  label: mgr
----

> . Save the spec in `/tmp/mgr.yaml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Save the spec in the `/tmp/mgr.yaml` directory.
```
@fmount Is it accurate to call  `/tmp/mgr.yaml` a directory?

Author: technically is a file, I'll put `file` instead of directory.

. Save the spec in `/tmp/mgr.yaml`

> . Apply the spec with cephadm using the orchestrator:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Apply the spec with cephadm by using the orchestrator:
```

Author: Done

+
----
sudo cephadm shell -m /tmp/mgr.yaml -- ceph orch apply -i /mnt/mgr.yaml
----

> According to the numner of nodes where the `mgr` label is added, you will see a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
According to the number of nodes where the `mgr` label is added, you see a
```

Author: Done

> Ceph Mgr daemon count that matches the number of hosts.

Reviewer: Is " According to the number of nodes where the mgr label is added, you will see a Ceph Mgr daemon count that matches the number of hosts" the expected result of running the "sudo cephadm shell -m /tmp/mgr.yaml -- ceph orch apply -i /mnt/mgr.yaml" command?

Author: It's the result of the procedure executed so far, that ended with the command you mentioned. I think we should clarify this point, and I'll change that to:

```
As a result of this procedure, you see a Ceph Manager daemon count that matches the number of hosts where the `mgr` label is added.
```

We can revisit in case you have other ideas.

> . Verify new Ceph Mgr have been created in the target_nodes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Verify that the new Ceph Mgr daemons are created in the target_nodes:
```

Author: Done

+
----
ceph orch ps | grep -i mgr
ceph -s
----
+
[NOTE]

> The procedure does not shrink the Ceph Mgr daemons: the count is grown by the
> number of target nodes, and the xref:migrating-mon-from-controller-nodes[Ceph Mon migration procedure]
> will decommission the stand-by Ceph Mgr instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The procedure does not shrink the Ceph Mgr daemons. The count is grown by the
number of target nodes, and migrating Ceph Monitor daemons to {Ceph} nodes decommissions the stand-by Ceph Mgr instances. For more information, see xref:migrating-mon-from-controller-nodes_migrating-ceph-rbd[Migrating Ceph Monitor daemons to {Ceph} nodes].
```

Author: Done

= Migrating Ceph Manager daemons to {Ceph} nodes

The following section describes how to move Ceph Manager daemons from the
{rhos_prev_long} Controller nodes to a set of target nodes. Target nodes might
be pre-existing {Ceph} nodes, or {OpenStackShort} Compute nodes if {Ceph} is
deployed by {OpenStackPreviousInstaller} with an HCI topology.

> This procedure assumes that Cephadm and the {Ceph} Orchestrator are the tools
> that drive the Ceph Manager migration. As done with the other Ceph daemons
> (MDS, Monitoring and RGW), the procedure uses the Ceph spec to modify the
> placement and reschedule the daemons. Ceph Manager is run in an active/passive
> fashion, and it's also responsible to provide many modules, including the
> orchestrator.
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This procedure assumes that cephadm and the {Ceph} Orchestrator are the tools
that drive the Ceph Manager migration. As is done with the other Ceph daemons
(MDS, Monitoring, and RGW), the procedure uses the Ceph spec to modify the
placement and reschedule the daemons. Ceph Manager is run in an active/passive
fashion, and it also provides many modules, including the Ceph
Orchestrator.

```

Author: Done

.Prerequisites

> Configure the target nodes (CephStorage or ComputeHCI) to have both `storage`
> and `storage_mgmt` networks to ensure that you can use both {Ceph} public and
> cluster networks from the same node. This step requires you to interact with
> {OpenStackPreviousInstaller}. From {rhos_prev_long} {rhos_prev_ver} and later
> you do not have to run a stack update.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Configure the target nodes (CephStorage or ComputeHCI) to have both `storage`
and `storage_mgmt` networks to ensure that you can use both {Ceph} public and
cluster networks from the same node. This step requires you to interact with
{OpenStackPreviousInstaller}. From {rhos_prev_long} {rhos_prev_ver} and later
you do not have to run a stack update.
```

Author: Done

.Procedure

. Ssh into the target node and enable the firewall rules that are required to
  reach a Manager service:
+
----
dports="6800:7300"
ssh heat-admin@<target_node> sudo iptables -I INPUT \
    -p tcp --match multiport --dports $dports -j ACCEPT;
----
+
Repeat this step for each `<target_node>`.

. Check that the rules are properly applied and persist them:
+
----
$ sudo iptables-save
$ sudo systemctl restart iptables
----
+
. Prepare the target node to host the new Ceph Manager daemon, and add the `mgr`
label to the target node:
+
----
ceph orch host label add <target_node> mgr; done
----

> +
> * Replace `<target_node>` with the hostname of the hosts listed in the {Ceph}
>   through the `ceph orch host ls` command
> 
> Repeat the actions described above for each `<target_node> that will host a
> Ceph Manager daemon.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
* Replace `<target_node>` with the hostname of the hosts listed in the {Ceph}
  through the `ceph orch host ls` command
+
Repeat the actions described above for each `<target_node>` that will host a
Ceph Manager daemon.

```

Author: Done

. Get the Ceph Manager spec:
+
[source,yaml]
----
sudo cephadm shell -- ceph orch ls --export mgr > mgr.yaml
----

. Edit the retrieved spec and add the `label: mgr` section to the `placement`
  section:
+
[source,yaml]
----
service_type: mgr
service_id: mgr
placement:
  label: mgr
----

> . Save the spec in `/tmp/mgr.yaml` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Save the spec in the `/tmp/mgr.yaml` file.
```

Author: Done

. Apply the spec with cephadm by using the orchestrator:
+
----
sudo cephadm shell -m /tmp/mgr.yaml -- ceph orch apply -i /mnt/mgr.yaml
----

As a result of this procedure, you see a Ceph Manager daemon count that matches

> the number of hosts where the `mgr` label is added.

Reviewer: The plus sign aligns the text with the current step and keeps the numbering in order.
